last time uh we talked
uh we were talking only about covet at
that point and you said we wouldn't be
completely back to normal
until this coming fall does that still
feel right to you and if so
when do you think we'll be completely
back maybe more specifically
well the good news since we last talked
is the
progress in the vaccines and although in
a few cases the manufacturing volumes
have been hard to ramp up overall
most of vaccine constructs work well the
only negative news
since then is the rise of the variants
and
the gates foundation funded all these
trials in south africa
we did that not because we knew in
advance some variant would show up
during those trials but
we wanted safety data in africa to
convince africans
uh that they should consider taking the
vaccine and we wanted a population of
people living with hiv to see
how the vaccine worked there now it
turned out
that as we ran that trial we could see
the variant coming in
and we saw that two of the three
vaccines
we were testing nova vaccine johnson
johnson retained a lot of strength and
and so now the discussion about do you
need a third dose
okay if so is it a different vaccine
than their first two
do we need to tune the vaccine our
vaccine team is working with the
government now
to figure out that plan uh so that is
you know it's gonna extend things a bit
uh and you know cause us to to be
careful in our behavior
but overall i'd still say by the fall uh
the u.s particularly if we can uh get
the message out to encourage
uh wide acceptance of the vaccine
will avoid a fall wave
you know which will be you know
fantastic now we need to help the whole
world
and that's where the gates foundation
funding of these indian factories and
getting
huge capacity up uh so the disease isn't
coming back to the us
so we have a world economy that's going
full speed that creates jobs here and
just to save
to save lives bill forgive me if
the you did this on national television
last week but
have you gotten vaccinated i did i
i'm very lucky it's the first time i've
been pleased to be
uh such an old man at 65 so i just made
the cutoff so
last friday i had my second dose of
moderna
and i was lucky to have very modest side
effects